Okay, so now I'm gonna trick it.
Now I am gonna send something out.
I was typing some characters.
Now what?
Well, this is gonna hang now cuz I'm
not calling next or anything, so
it's just gonna sit here.
But it didn't break.
So our protect middleware
isn't good enough yet.
I bypassed it by just typing
in some random strings.
So we're not there yet.
We check to see if it was there,
that's great.
And now we gotta check
to see if it's real.
And that will stop this from happening.
So let's go do that.
So now what we'll do, is we're gonna check
to see if this is actually real or not.
So the way we'll do that is we'll
grab the token off the bearer and
check to see if there's an actual token.
And then I'll give you another check.
So let's do just that.
Let me go to off.
Next check would be, let's just say const.
I'm gonna destructure here, so
I'll put an empty array for
now, and I'm gonna say
bearer.split on an empty space.
The reason I'm splitting on empty space
because I'm saying you need to send
me a token that looks like this.
Let's just bearer, space and
then your token here.
So I'm splitting on this empty space,
and split returns an array.
And it should have the word
bearer in the first argument and
the first index of the array, and then the
token in the second index of the array.
That's what split's doing.
So that's what I'm saying
is the API creator,
that's what I want you to send me.
So that means the first thing
here is the word bearer.
I don't care about it, so
I'm gonna put a comma.
But the second thing is a token,
I care about that, so I'm gonna say token.
So now we have a token.
Then I can say, if not token,
you already know what's about to happen.
I'm about to give you the same
thing I gave buddy up here.
It's a 401 unauthorized.
Or I can say not valid token.
Whatever I wanna put.
Okay, so to test this, now let's restart
our server, go back to turn client.
This was able to fool it last time.
Let's see if it fools it this time.
I think it still fooled it,
so we're not there yet.
We still haven't built a sophisticated
enough protect to stop
something as trivial as just typing
in something here and hitting Send.
So not quite there yet,
it's still hanging.
I'm guessing the split actually created,
well, yeah, if you split on empty space
with nothing in it, it's still gonna
just give you back the string.
So it's still gonna bypass it.
The split is not good enough yet.
So now what we wanna do is we wanna
like okay, cool, you got past here,
you sent up a token, you actually
formatted it correctly somehow,
but is it a real JWT
signed by this secret?
That's the last check.
So if you can get past that,
then you must be real,
or you steal someone's JWT,
which means you're real.
So let's do that.
Let's go back to our code,
And we'll say, okay,
cool, we're gonna try to cache
this because it could break.
And if it breaks we don't want
the server to break because this
method from JWT will break
if it doesn't verify.
But we don't want someone sending
a wrong JSON web token breaking
our server because the user messed up.
We don't want the rest of our users
suffering because someone tried
to authenticate incorrectly.
Imagine someone's server crashing
because you forgot your password.
That's the equivalent of this.
I don't want that to happen.
Someone forgot their password, and
that crashed a whole server for everybody.
That would be terrible, so
that's what we're trying catching this.
Okay, so now let's say
const user = jwt.verify.
So we wanna verify this
token with this secret,
so process.env.JWT_SECRET.
So we're gonna get this token,
and then if not user, right?
Or there we go,
I'm just gonna assume that it is.
So we got that, otherwise,
this would actually break.
So now, we'll just say req.user.
I've augmented the request object, = user.
Which should be the object that
we signed all the way up here.
So should be an object with the ID and
a username cuz that's what
we signed in to existence.
And then I can say next, I'm done,
not next tick, but next.
And I guess I need to put next
here cuz it is a middleware.
If any of that breaks, you know what
we're doing, we're coming over here.
We're saying no.
And I'm just gonna log the error just so
we can see it.
So we're gonna try to verify this
token with this secret that we signed
a token with.
If it is a user, we'll attach it to
the request object we'll call the Next.
So anything in the stack can now req.user,
and
see the user who's currently
making the request.
They can identify them.
It will have an ID and a username on
it perfect for query to database.
Otherwise, you know what's gonna happen.
You're getting a 401.
So let's give it a go.
So I think these are still gonna hang,
means I still don't have any handlers.
But we do have a handler in, where is it?
There we go, gets slash first.
I gotta make sure I go there.
Okay so, let's try this.
Stop, start it again.
And now if I try to do this and
I run this code, boom.
Now spoofing, JWT that got past those
two steps are no longer going to
get past that last step because
it's not a valid token.
Not a valid token, right?
And we can go look at the error that
the JWT logged, you can see right here.
A JSON Web Token error.
JWT malformed.
This didn't break the server
though because I caught it.
If I didn't catch this,
if I did not wrap this in a try catch,
our server would be off right now.
It's still on.
It's still on right now.
But if I didn't do the try catch,
it will be off.
And everybody would be tweeting
us cuz our server died.
In the middle of a ranked game or
something like that.
Something weird.
So any questions on that?
That was a lot.
Authentication is tough.
And it gets tougher than this, [LAUGH].
But for the most part,
it's mostly just this.
Plus other stuff.
Yes.
>> Would API rate limiting be
also implemented in a middleware?
>> Good question.
So API rate limiting is a mechanism you
would use for an external facing API.
So as in your product is an API.
Again, I hate to use stripe again but
stripes product is an API,
their product is documentation.
So they would have something like
rate limiting because they don't
want one person killing all this.
Somebody could just write
a script on an infinite loop and
deploy it to 30,000 IP addresses and
just try to bring down your server.
They don't want that to happen.
So they implement something called rate
limiting, which looks at an IP address and
limits how many times an IP address can
make a request per second before it
gets blocked for X amount of time
before they're allowed to do it again.
Yes, you could do that in the middleware,
but for more performance,
you don't want that request
even reaching your server.
Because yes,
you stopped it from reaching the handlers,
which talked to the database,
which are the biggest performance hit, but
it's still on your server and
taking up resources there.
So typically a rate limiting for
a more sophisticated API would
probably be added before the API.
So technically it is
kinda like middleware,
but middleware on the network layer and
not on the code layer.
And this would be like a proxy or
an API gateway or something like that.
Which is another server that
sits in front of your server.
And that server does things like
rate limiting and access control.
So that way your server can safely make
the assumption that this request is safe
and ready to go.
And that's just a whole another thing.
There's literally products
that are just that.
Okay, everybody's an expert now?
>> No.
>> [LAUGH] All it's tough.
Okay, well,
at least we're protecting our routes now.
You can't access any of these routes.
They're good the guards, its cool.